Assignment and submission state transition (#20438)
microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-docs: concepts/assignments-submissions-states-transition.md

---
title: "Teacher and student actions for assignments and submissions"

> description: "Learn about on how to get the assignments and related submissions for Teachers and Students with state transition rules."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn about how to get the assignments and related submissions for Teachers and Students with state transition rules."
```

ms.localizationpriority: medium
author: "AshwaniBansal1"
ms.prod: "education"
doc_type: conceptualPageType
---

> # State transiton for Student and Teacher role

Reviewer 2: makes sense

> This article describes student and teacher roles for the assignment and submission state transition and related transition rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article describes student and teacher roles for the assignment, submission state transition, and related transition rules.
```

> ## Get all the assignmets and their corresponding submission belonging to the student

Reviewer 2: good catch, thank you

> ## Get all the assignments and their corresponding submissions belonging to the student

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get all the assignments and their respective submissions that belong to a specific student
```

> Use the following call for the student action:

Reviewer: Make the following request to get the student's action:

> Use the following call for the student action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make the following request to get the student's action:
```

`me/assignments?$expand=submissions` with a Delegated Scope, or `users/id/assignments?$expand=submissions` for Application scope.

> Code sample for student account with [Education assignment using Microsoft Graph SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/edu-assignments-graph-sdk/blob/main/samples/csharp/MicrosoftEduGraphSamples/Workflows/AssignmentWorkflow.cs#L62)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code sample for students' account with [Education assignment using Microsoft Graph SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/edu-assignments-graph-sdk/blob/main/samples/csharp/MicrosoftEduGraphSamples/Workflows/AssignmentWorkflow.cs#L62)
```

> Code sample for student account with [Education assignment using Microsoft Graph SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/edu-assignments-graph-sdk/blob/main/samples/csharp/MicrosoftEduGraphSamples/Workflows/AssignmentWorkflow.cs#L62)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See a code sample for a student account with [Education assignment using Microsoft Graph SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/edu-assignments-graph-sdk/blob/main/samples/csharp/MicrosoftEduGraphSamples/Workflows/AssignmentWorkflow.cs#L62)
```

> [!NOTE]

> > For student account isTeacher parameter needs to be set to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For student accounts, the isTeacher parameter needs to be set to false.
```

> ## Get all the assignmets for teacher and then submissions for each assignment

Reviewer 2: done

> Use the following call for the teacher action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make the following request to get the teacher's actions:
```

`me/assignments` or `users/id/assignments` to get the assignments belonging to a teacher.

> Then, for each of the assignments use `classses/id/assignments/id/submissions` to get the submission status (one assignment will contain n number of submissions, where n is the class size) .

Reviewer 3: Not necessarily.  A teacher could create an assignment for a subset or students or groups of students

Reviewer 2: makes sense

> Then, for each of the assignments use `classses/id/assignments/id/submissions` to get submissions status (one assignment will contain n number of submissions, where n is the number of students. It can be a single student, a group of students or the entire class).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, for each of the assignments, use `classses/id/assignments/id/submissions` to get the submissions status (one assignment will contain n number of submissions, where n is the number of students. It can be a single student, a group of students or the entire class).
```

> See the the code sample for a teacher account with [Education assignment using Microsoft Graph SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/edu-assignments-graph-sdk/blob/main/samples/csharp/MicrosoftEduGraphSamples/Workflows/AssignmentWorkflow.cs#L62).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the code sample for a teacher account with [Education assignment using Microsoft Graph SDK](https://github.com/microsoft/edu-assignments-graph-sdk/blob/main/samples/csharp/MicrosoftEduGraphSamples/Workflows/AssignmentWorkflow.cs#L62).
```

> For a student, an assignment is actionable if the corresponding submission is in *Working*, *Returned* or *Reassigned* state. For a teacher, an assignment is actionable if any of the submissions of that assignment are in *Submitted* state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a student, an assignment is actionable if the corresponding submission is in a *working*, *returned* or *reassigned* state. For a teacher, an assignment is actionable if any of the submissions of that assignment are in a *Submitted* state.
```

## State transition rules

> The following state transition rules are applicable for both student and teacher:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following state transition rules are applicable for both student and teacher roles: 
```

* A student *turns in*, and teacher *returns* or *returns for revision*.
* A teacher returns submissions.
* A student can *turn in* the assignment only when the submission is in *working* or *reassigned* state.

> * The *Return for Revision* action makes the submission state as *reassigned*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The *return for revision* action makes the submission state as *reassigned*.
```
